# On the Code of Excellency

I'm certain that it's only a matter of time until I find myself under fire for the creation of the [Code of Excellency](https://github.com/taizweb/code-of-excellency). In response to my growing amount of projects and daily contributions, I realized that it was only a matter of time before other people became interested in some of the things I've built. Therefore, I would go from being a simple programmer to a project maintainer, and the responsibility of the way things are conducted in my projects will fall squarely on my shoulders. So, I typed up a quick and concise ruleset of how I want the going-ons in my projects to be handled.

## The TL;DR
Be objective. That's essentially the main point of the entire thing. Anyone can add to the project given their code is good. If Karl Marx came back from the dead, became a programmer, and sent me a pull request, I'd accept it. I wouldn't care about the fact he now has a craving for human flesh, nor a craving for communism. If his code is good, I'll happily add his code to my projects and have him as a contributor. However, that's not the entire thing. The very last line states that the users are to be excellent to each other. Linux history aside, this is one of the most powerful lines in the entire thing. Someone could be a total asshat in the issue tracker, but still never break the CoE by never saying anything disparaging about the author themselves. They could have an entire essay on why _the code_ sucks, but not the contributor directly. **But** that's not being excellent, now is it? So essentially, the rules become: don't be racist/sexist/whatever, and don't be an asshat.

## But what even is an asshat?
Entirely up to the maintainer. I would qualify it as being _unnecessarily_ cruel. Rather than telling someone their code sucks, you can tell them why it sucks, and possibly how to make it not suck. This flexibility allows for maintainers to have a bit of leeway with what they consider good conduct in their projects. As much as I dislike ambiguity, I realize that no matter how specific I try to make the rules, trolls will find ways around them. They'll trash my repository and relish in the fact that _technically_ they've done nothing wrong, and therefore taking action against them would be me going back on my own words.

## Why not just use the Contributor Covenant?
This is a large can of worms I'd rather not get too deep into, but the creator of the Contributor Covenant altered it in order to get back at someone they had _personal_ beef with. I recommend reading [this](https://itsfoss.com/linux-code-of-conduct/) article for a bit more context. The change I really had a problem with seemingly went against the entire point of it, being that **things done by people on other sites could effect their eligibility to participate in open source projects**. Imagine if you made a raunchy joke ten years ago on Twitter, then tried to send a pull request to Linux (seeing as how they've adopted this CoC). Someone could go post a screenshot of your raunchy joke, and just like that, you can't contribute anymore. That's not a good way to handle things. In fact, that's a terrible way to go about it. What's more, the creator of the Contributor Covenant _laughed_ at the prospect of good programmers being unable to contribute anymore, and _enjoyed_ the idea of their exclusion. I don't believe programming to be a political act, as much as people on Twitter like to spout. Do you really care if the creator of some sorting algorithm had some bad takes? No, you don't, because you care more about the results of their work than the person behind it. And that's precisely what the CoE is all about. The code people make, not the people themselves.

## Adoption
I hope that people start to take notice of the CoE and apply it to their own projects. All of my projects where contributions are welcome will have it as their guidelines, and I hope other people start to notice it too. If you'd like to use it in your projects, simply copy the file from it's [repository](https://github.com/taizweb/code-of-excellency) and start using it.

